What do you think are the jobs that have
the highest risk of extinction?
>> Jobs where
>> Meet Jesse Jen, 27 years old and already
a co-founder of a $ 1.5 billion AI
company. His startup Decagon powers
conversations for brands like Herz,
Dolingo, and Notion. In just 2 years,
his team has grown to nearly 200. So, he
is hiring. But the question is how and
who? You're seeing some of the companies
actually laying off agencies that
they're using, right? What do you feel
like the percentage of these companies
is
>> within those categories that I listed?
Maybe 1/3, 1/3, 1/3.
>> So, it is happening and you see it. In
this episode, we explore the future of
work from the jobs most at risk in the
AI era and we're going to talk about new
career paths that are opening up and the
skills that will define the next
generation of leaders.
>> For people with nontechnical backgrounds
that want to get into it, I think right
now is a golden time.
>> And when you interview people for a
company, can you name some skills that
you're looking for? Welcome to Silicon
Valley Girl everyone. Jesse, you founded
a company that helps corporations build
AI agents to automate processes inside
those corporations and one of your
customers said working with you is like
having 65 people working on particular
problem. Do you see it as creating more
opportunities or like taking jobs from
people who were doing these tasks?
>> Yeah. No, how do you give some context?
So you mentioned kind of using AI agents
to automate things. We we focus
specifically on conversations with end
users, right? So, as an example, let's
say uh you know, we work with a hotel
chain and as you can imagine, a lot of
the customers that go and stay in the
hotels and so on, they they'll have a
lot of inquiries like I want to book a
room or I want to upgrade my room or I
have questions about my loyalty points.
Um, these are classic, you know, you can
think of these as customer service or
customer support inquiries that come in.
And the AI agent's job is to have a
conversation with them. This can be over
the phone. It can be over live chat. And
the AI agent can have the full
conversation. It might need to go look
up information about you, right? It
might need to figure out like what are
your past stays or it might need to
figure out like what loyalty tier you
are. So, it might it can go in and look
up information. It can take actions as
well. So, it can go and book a room for
you and so on. So, in a nutshell, that's
what we do. And so those are the you
know you mentioned automating processes
that's that's kind of what we do. It's
it's more about automating these
conversations. Um so back to your
question about how we view the
innovation and sort of impact on these
organizations. It really depends on what
the organization is looking to get out
of get out of AI agents and different
organizations are in different stages.
Uh some people are in heavy growth mode
right so the AI agent is more of an
amplification of what they currently do.
there's there's no one that's replacing
per se, but it's it's making it's making
their operation just much faster and and
make it so that it's a lot less
operationally intensive for them to
grow, right? If they grew 5x in the last
year, maybe they don't need to, you
know, 5x their support team. So, that
that's one uh thing that we see. Other
organizations that we talk to are more
focused on um the quality of experience.
Maybe they just don't care about cost.
So, they don't really care how many
they're not, you know, replacing anyone.
They're they're more just kind of like,
okay, we think that having AI agent here
will make the customers a lot happier
with us because, you know, they can get
answers instantly. They can get what
they wanted, you know, within a few
seconds rather than waiting on hold. And
so that's what we're seeing. And th
those are kind of different profiles.
And of course, there is also a third uh
category of company where maybe they're
just in costsaving mode. And so what
they're using AI for is kind of, you
know, making their operations more
efficient and either reassigning those
folks to other uh jobs or more
realistically sometimes they're using
like outsourced um you know agencies and
they can downsize those. Right. So those
are those are the three categories of
companies and we're we're seeing kind of
a a pretty good diversity between those.
>> Yeah. Because I feel like when we're
talking about jobs that might get
eliminated by AI, we talk about those
like customer support roles first. Uh
and uh it's interesting to hear that
it's like with um you know when we talk
about mental health like if there is a
therapist on your phone it doesn't mean
it's replacing therapists it's just
making therapy more accessible for
everyone but in your industry you said
you're seeing some of the companies
actually laying off but like agencies
that they're using right what do you
feel like the percentage of those
companies is
>> I think yeah I mean within those
categories that I listed maybe 1/3 one
third one third
>> okay so so it is happening and you see
it
>> yeah and I think the agencies themselves
I think they're also just shifting to
new things, right? So, let's say you
operate a big call center with a lot of
folks. Um, I don't think it's a matter
of like, oh crap, there's not stuff for
us to do anymore. There's just other
things.
>> So, instead of handling the, you know,
tier one types of conversations of, you
know, like book a room for me,
>> you're you're more involved in kind of
building relationship with the client,
handling handling more like the tier
two, tier three like complex
interactions. Um, you could and then
there's kind of other things that
emerge, right? So, for example, a big
thing nowadays is uh collecting data for
the AI or having people review the AI.
And so, I think it's just kind of the
nature of the job changes. And that's
pretty much what happens every single
time there's a big technology shift.
>> I think a lot of you guys are listening
to this and thinking, yeah, clearly he
has computer science background. He's
built this company and AI is definitely
helping him improve his life because he
is building something that's changing
the world. But how do I actually use AI
in my own business since I can't code?
And here's the problem I see all the
time. People try to run everything on
several different tools. One for email,
another for CRM, then payments, then
scheduling, add phone calls to that, and
suddenly you're tuggling subscriptions
just to stay organized. That's where
Highle makes a huge difference. It's an
all-in-one platform that lets you run
and automate your business from day one.
You can build websites and funnels with
drag and drop. You can automate emails
and SMS and IGDMs. You can manage
clients with a built-in CRM. You can
schedule calls, take payments, even host
courses, and keep all your messages in
one shared inbox. And the best part, you
get your own AI employee, actually
several of them. Voice AI that picks up
calls and books appointments.
Conversation AI that replies across
platforms. Reviews AI follows up for
five star reviews. Content AI writes
posts and emails. and a workflow
assistant that keeps everything running.
All starting at just $97 a month. No
contracts, no complicated setup. If
you're just starting out or ready to
simplify what you already have, High
Level helps you run like a real business
right from the beginning. Check it out.
The link's in the description. And if
you use my link, you'll actually get a
30-day trial instead of the usual 14
days. So try it out and see how much
easier your business can run with High
Level. And what do you think is going to
happen to entry-level jobs? I just saw
these stats where there were 30% more
applications for entry-level jobs this
year and 15% less spots in the
companies. What do you think is going to
happen?
>> Yeah, I think the types of things that
people end up doing now are going to be
different just enabled by AI, right? So
if you even think about software
engineering is one of the most popular
jobs um in the last decade or so. We
have a lot of software engineers and
there's no way we will slow down our
hiring a software engineer anytime soon
cuz the amount of software that you need
to build is is kind of like uncapped.
It's it's more likely growing I feel
like.
>> Exactly. Right. Like the more people you
have the faster you can get there
almost. So it's not necessarily like a
hey there's there's fewer jobs but um
the nature changes right so now pretty
much every single one of our engineers
is heavily using AI in their job and
it's kind of one of those things where
it's hard to quantify exactly what the
impact is one because we started the
company after that technology was there.
So like we've always had that technology
but even if you kind of compared someone
just coding by themselves versus with an
AI agent like obviously you can feel
that the AI makes them faster and like
more productive but it's hard to measure
the impact. What are your top three uh
tools to build an AI agent for someone
who's non-technical? Ideally,
>> I don't really have strong thoughts on
those. I mean, I can tell you what we
use as a company. So, on the coding
side, we have,
you know, classic cursor, cloud code,
um, companies like that. Lovable is
quite impressive in terms of prototyping
and and building things out. On the
non-engineering side, folks use things
like notetakers and um you know chat GBT
in and of itself is quite useful just
for researching and making you know
people more well equipped on the go to
market side for example. So those are
the tools. Um in terms of building AI
agents I I don't think like the typical
person will build their own agent per
se. I mean um you can you can you can
build a simple one with chat GBT for
example but most of our
employee base I would say are kind of
using tools to amplify themselves
instead of like creating their own
agents.
>> Mhm. So do you feel like smaller
businesses like in two or three years if
they want an AI agent they would go to a
company like yours or you still will be
working with larger corporations because
this is something that's heavier lift
for small businesses.
>> Yeah. interesting. I would say that
currently our focus is on the large
organizations. There's a bunch of
reasons for that. I mean, one is that
they have the scale and so they if you
think about the number of customer
inquiries that they get or the number of
customer service requests or cover
customer service agents that they have,
it's it's just way larger than anything
else. And so it makes sense for us to
work with these companies if we can.
>> Um, another reason is that AI agents are
still generally in their infancy. So
there's still a lot of figuring out to
be done and because of that the
product's going through a ton of
iteration and it makes a lot of sense to
iterate you know side by side with these
larger corporation corporations because
you can build around them and then you
know the ideal path is like okay once
the product is mature enough maybe then
you can start productizing it for um
smaller clients but I think the issue is
that because the clients are smaller you
don't actually have the time or the
capacity to really spend time building
around them so you have to have
something that's more productized So I
think that's the ideal progression for
AI agents is if you can work with the
largest corporations, you can work with
them closely and kind of refine the
product and really figure out like what
needs to be in there and to craft the
agent and then you you can kind of
productize it more for the smaller
folks.
>> So you're automating customer support
for others but inside your company what
are the processes that used to exist
that do not exist now because they're
fully automated.
>> The thing that comes mostly to mind is
uh doing research. So let's say you are
looking into a new space and trying to
figure out you know what are the you
know best fits for decagon or you're
trying to understand for a specific
company like you know what what is the
history so you can be you know you can
have a good understanding with them so
when you talk to them you can have
empathy you can have you know the right
context for them and so normally people
would have to spend a good amount of
time you know googling stuff and putting
together notes or watching videos and
stuff like that. But yeah, if you use,
you know, deep research or one of the AI
agents to do the research for you, you
can get it done within, you know, a few
minutes and then there sources as well,
so you can validate stuff. It's it makes
things much easier.
>> Yeah, absolutely. How many people do you
have now on the team?
>> We are a little less than We're still
less than 200.
>> Less than 200. Have you ever gone from
more people to less people in the past
few years?
>> No, but we've only been around for two
years. So
>> So you're you're only growing. Do do you
see hiring more people in the future?
>> Oh, of course. Yeah, we're hiring super
fast right now and it's one of the
bottlenecks I would say for the business
is we need more people.
>> Do you think it's possible to build a
company these days without being
technical if you want to build an AI
space? Because you know, we're talking
about lovable that lets you deploy
faster and come up with MVPs. We're
talking about Nathan that lets you build
AI agents with just a block scheme. Um,
do you think you still have to be
technical to build a billion dollar
company or you can be a one person, you
know, with a good idea and a bunch of
tools, uh, building something that's
going to help the market?
>> I don't think you have to be technical,
but I think being technical helps a lot
>> because you just have better intuition
and you understand the inner workings a
little bit more and so you can make
better decisions faster, I would say.
But yeah, even now, even without AI, you
didn't you don't have to be technical.
Um, it's just it's just very helpful. If
you have the time and the interest, like
why not learn it?
>> Yeah, it's just maybe for people who are
like they don't see themselves as coders
necessarily, but they feel like they're
missing out on this huge era of change
because they don't understand what's
going on.
>> Yeah. I mean, for for people with
nontechnical backgrounds that want to
get into it, just Yeah. I think right
now is a golden time. You can you can do
a lot more than you did before.
I mean that's part part of the reason
why a lot of these coding tools are
getting so much
um exposure is that you you there's just
like a much larger audience now right
instead of being someone super technical
you can you can be semi-technical or not
technical at all and now you have a
great opportunity to build your own
things
>> I love that can you give advice to
people who are watching who are
graduating from college because you went
straight to starting a company it was
another company was uh company uh
connected with video games but have Have
you ever had this thought of like, no, I
should go work for a company first, get
some experience. Why did you decide to
go straight into business?
>> Yeah, I mean, I thought about this a lot
cuz we've also recruited a lot of people
out of college that you were also
considering building their own thing.
And I think my general sense is if you
feel ready and you feel a lot of energy
and conviction in doing your own thing,
then go for it. You know, like it's
going to be quite tough. I would say for
me it was very tough right out of
college just cuz you don't have enough
intuition around things. But if you feel
ready for that and you're okay with it
being tough and kind of just trudging
through it then yeah just do it. I think
we I I love seeing people that are just
like having the confidence and can just
go for it. On the flip side yeah the
reason to kind of work somewhere would
be to gain experience and gain that
intuition. So if you you know work at a
startup um in my my my thesis is like if
you do choose to work at a startup you
ideally choose one that's post product
market fit because otherwise you don't
learn that much like if you're
pre-product market fit you're you're
kind of building stuff but maybe you'll
learn some technical skills. You don't
really learn that much around like what
what you should look for in a company
and like how to like what good looks
like right
>> so okay you join a postpmf company maybe
it just hit PMF and things are
inflecting and things are really
working. Yeah, you that could be really
helpful because you you gain a lot of
intuition around how to work with
people, what types of profiles you need.
You gain a lot of intuition around um
you know, how to approach customers, how
to work with customers, what's the right
dynamic to have with your customers, um
you know, how to build products and how
to build product at scale that doesn't
break all the time. So, that's the
benefit of actually doing the second
route. But yeah, if if you have energy,
then um there's definitely nothing wrong
with just learning as you go.
>> Okay. If you were brutally honest,
uh, what do you think are the jobs that
have the highest risk of extinction in
the next 5 years?
>> I mean, it's hard to say at a very high
level, but I would say
jobs where there is it's it's just kind
of like straight up output where like
let's say right now, you know, what AI
is really good at, right? It's like it's
writing, you know, marketing materials.
And if the job is just writing marketing
materials, then I think those jobs are
kind of hard to justify. And so what
will happen, I think, is that those jobs
will kind of evolve. Um like people
often talk about, you know, like what
jobs AI is eliminating because it's kind
of easy to see like, oh well AI can do
this, that means we don't need humans
anymore. Uh but that's true of any
technology. Any technology that's like
good at something, you don't really need
humans to do that thing. So what the job
becomes is like humans kind of like
guiding that technology. So yeah, I mean
classic example of writing marketing
materials or just like writing stuff in
general.
>> Do you have that person on your team or
is it like a marketer?
>> Yeah, we have a marketing team and they
use AI, right? But there's there's no
sort of like need anymore for someone
that just writes,
>> you know, have someone who controls the
AI that writes the copy, right? So, and
and same with what we're doing. Like
when we when we think about, you know,
customer service or customer experience,
you don't necessarily need people to,
you know, handle the like how do I reset
my password type questions. Um, you can
have people that either can work on the
higher level hardware questions or kind
of manage the AI that you know solves
those questions. And so uh for us what
we're seeing actually with a lot of our
customers with a lot of our customers is
that people kind of grow into new roles
that are much more exciting. So it could
be like there's now this concept of like
a conversation architect or AI architect
and their whole job is to use decagon to
design the way that their AI should
behave and you know that that requires a
little bit of a different skill set. You
have to be fairly good at reasoning. you
have to be fairly good at communicating
because that's how you communicate to
the AI of how to you know um answer
something
>> and they were customer support before
those people.
>> Yeah. Uh so before they were kind of you
know managers, CX managers or um you
know they were in charge of kind of
their original knowledge base or they
were in charge of kind of the old school
chat bots and so their their roles have
kind of evolved as well, right? So a a
big part of Decagon is enabling those
people. And so we have a big focus on
customer enablement. We have a program
that we call Decagon University that
uplevels them into the new AI age.
>> And the benefit is that now you kind of
get these folks that were very
interested in this, but we've kind of
given them a much smoother path to
figure out like, okay, here's how you
build intuition around AI. Here's how I
use them. And now they're much more
effective at their jobs because they're,
you know, now in charge of AI and
designing it and leveraging it and
reviewing the answers and figuring out
how to, you know, make it better. So
Jesse's an employer, right? He's hiring
people in today's AI world. And again,
we've seen the stats. AI is replacing
people, no more jobs, blah blah blah.
But he's still hiring. His company's
growing. He needs more highskilled
workers. The question I want to ask him
is what do employers like him look for
in candidates in today's market. What
skills are critical? How do you stand
out? Let's dive into what it really
takes to be a part of a high growth
startup. And when you interview people
for a company, can you name some skills
that you're looking for? Not necessarily
technical, but maybe like their personal
traits that will help them transition
from just being customer support to, you
know, manager of AI.
>> Yeah. So I mean one you have to be
fairly analytical because you have to be
able to break something down into steps
right so a big part of the the folks
that are using Decagon is oh I saw this
conversation that could have been better
how do I figure out how to update the AI
so that it can answer these
conversations better in the future and
that involves okay well I need to kind
of dig into the conversation and we have
a lot of tooling here that helps them
like okay this message here's how the AI
got this message here's like the
reasoning here's like the step that it
took, here's the knowledge that it used.
And so someone who can actually clearly
think through that is going to be very
effective at this. And the the other
trait I would say is is around uh
communication. So um in the same way
that we communicate with co-workers now
in the future, you have these AI agents.
And one of the areas that we've
pioneered so far is like how do you
communicate with AI agent to teach it
new things? And the way we do it at
Dekon is through uh natural language
like plain English. So someone who is
really good at communicating can you
know write down instructions essentially
for the AI to follow in a very very nice
way whereas someone who's potentially
less good at communicating they might
write it down but then the AI could get
confused because like two of the steps
contradict with each other or something.
So I I would kind of put that into the
communication skills. So it's kind of
like analytical and communication
skills.
>> Yeah. Love it. You've been doing this
for two years. Um, how did you initially
find the problem and what made you stick
to it? Because there are so many
problems that could be solved with AI.
>> We found the problem mostly through
talking to customers. So our whole
approach to building product and
figuring out what to do is to be super
tight with our customers.
>> So you had your co-founders, you were
like, let's start something. And the
first thing you were going to do just
just talk to customers, right?
So Ashwin, my co-founder and I we had
both started companies before and we had
reasonable outcomes but they were all
kind of like up and down rides and a lot
of the reasons to have downs in in a
startup's journey especially in the
early days is that you are building
something and working really hard but
then you realize that there's no market
for it or customers don't really care
that much about it or they won't pay for
it.
So I think we just became a lot better
at that process and talking to customers
and really figuring out like what is the
ground truth behind what they actually
care about and in this case it was you
know conversational II customer service
and people have tons of people on their
team or kind of outsourced agency that's
doing this and they they see a lot of
opportunity and the the nice part about
what we're building is that it's very
quantifiable right you can you can
measure how well you're doing you can
see like what what's the impact on
online business.
>> You're talking to specifically B2B,
right? Straight away cuz like it's not
like you were talking to a lot of
different people to figure out.
>> We were mostly talking to large
businesses. Yeah.
>> Cuz you wanted to go to B into B2B,
right?
>> Yeah. I mean that that Yeah, that was a
conscious decision. I suppose my first
company was a B2C company and wanted to
try something different and also I think
it is much easier to reason through B2B.
uh B TOC there's a lot more intuition
based you know run experiments
>> and I feel like fundraising and
everything is just the predictability of
a business with B2B is way better
>> yeah for sure
>> way easier
>> thank you can you give one piece of
advice to everyone who's watching and
wants to start a company and AI
>> well one is that you kind of have to
find your own way cuz one of the things
that I believe in is that it's actually
super easy to overindex on what other
people have done and that might not work
for you because other people have
different strengths and different uh
circumstances as well and you might and
those might not be obvious by the way
when you first hear about it. So, I
think when you're young, you have a
tendency to like read these articles or
like podcasts or whatever about other
founders. You're like, "Okay, I'm just
going to do that cuz that's what
worked." But different people have
different strengths, right? Like Ash and
I have different strengths uh you
compared to other founders, but also
with each other. So, you have to figure
out you what what works for you. That's
probably the big thing is like don't
overindex on what you hear and just try
to introspect and figure out what you're
good at. Uh and then I mean you can
learn from other people's stories as
well. I mean I our story I think the
probably the biggest takeaway is that
you have to spend the first stage of
your company building journey gathering
as much signal as possible and
everything is about really getting
signal on what to build and what's
useful. Uh in B2B stuff like the purest
signal is like are is are you getting
revenue like are people paying you?
because if they're not then is what
you're doing like actually useful or
like I mean that's not necessarily the
case but like you just want to get as
much signal as as possible and I think
that's that was our learning basically.
So for other people that are building
B2B I I would probably suggest again you
know figure out your own path but I
would suggest that you should not really
try to build stuff first at all. You
should just spend time talking to
customers and um and not just talking to
them like you should really figure out
like a game plan for how you take a
conversation with a customer and like
really go deep into you know what
they're willing to pay for how they
think about ROI how they make decisions
and once you have enough data points
there then you can actually figure out
what is the right thing to build.
>> Did you actually ask them to pay when
you were having those conversations with
customers? So you're like if we're going
to build this or did you ask them to
submit the card without having a
product? Oh, no. Uh, I don't think
people would pay.
>> Well, sometimes they would like you put
put you on the wait list.
>> Yeah, maybe. I mean, so that is like one
type of signal, but you want to
>> Yeah, if Yeah. I mean, maybe Yeah. Maybe
you just have a conversation with
someone, they're like, "Holy crap."
Like,
>> I need this so badly. I'll just pay you
right now.
>> Yeah,
>> that would be nice. I think I There's no
way that'll happen for a sizable deal.
That's just not how companies make
decisions. But uh yeah, if you at least
can commit get them to commit to like,
hey, if if you deliver this, this would
be worth this much to us and actually
assign a number to it, that is that's
like kind of step one, right? And step
two, you kind of get into all right,
well, how are you justifying that? Like
who needs to make the call? Like whose
budget is it coming out of? It's kind of
classic discovery. So I think that's why
early stage founding is like so much
like sales. There's so many parallels.
Like sales is mostly just about like can
you relate to the customer? like can you
truly put yourself in their shoes and
understand how they make decisions?
What's important? What are the
trade-offs? How am I viewing these like
vendors I'm talking to?
And if you can do that well, then I
mean, yeah, in my opinion, that's what
generally makes a good salesperson. Um,
man, that's what makes a good founder as
well.
>> Love it. So key my key takeaways learn
how to sell, learn how to code,
learn how to communicate with people and
with AI. Love that. Thank you so much,
Jesse. I think it was very informational
for everyone who's starting a business.